BEIJING STOPS TRAVEL AS VIRUS SPIKE CONTINUES

 
Millions of people in Beijing are living under renewed restrictions,
as a spike in virus cases continues.

The city reported another 31 cases on Wednesday, bringing the total to
137 in the past week.

Before the recent spike, the Chinese capital had gone 57 days without
a locally-transmitted case.

The outbreak is believed to have started in the massive Xinfadi food
market that supplies 80% of the city's meat and vegetables.

DAILY BEIJING VIRUS CASES

WHAT ARE THE NEW RESTRICTIONS?

At least 27 neighbourhoods have been classed as medium risk and one
neighbourhood, near the market, is high risk.

People in medium or high-risk areas cannot leave the city. People in
low-risk areas can leave, but need to test negative first.

However, getting a test is difficult - three testing stations told the
BBC there were no tests available until July. Queues were seen outside
other centres.

More than 1,200 flights have been cancelled to and from the city and
railway services have been reduced until at least 9 July.

Primary school, middle school, and college classes are suspended,
sports teams cannot play, and swimming pools and gyms are closed.

However, roads are open, and companies and factories can still work.
The city is on a "level two" alert, the second-highest.

NORMAL-ISH...THEN BAM!

Restaurants, sport, packed trains, even the pubâ€¦ there we were,
basking in the glory of "normal-ish" life in Beijing, after more than
50 days without an infection.

Then: bam!

The market outbreak has dragged us back into a virus prevention
bubble.

In effect, it's very hard to leave Beijing right now. If you haven't
done a test in the past week your departure is not allowed, and
limited testing capacity is, understandably, being diverted to "high
risk" groups.

The airlines know this. That's why they've cancelled 1,255 flights in
and out of the capital on Wednesday so far.

For the moment, the authorities are managing Beijing districts almost
like cities within the city, imposing strict measures where needed in
the hope that they can control it.

However, this is touching everyone's movements.

The main difference between now and February is that businesses,
government departments, manufacturing are all still operating.

Perhaps because of this, there seems to be a general confidence that
the cluster will be controlled - before becoming a full-blown second
wave.

WHERE DID THE OUTBREAK BEGIN?

Local media said the virus was discovered on chopping boards used for
imported salmon at the Xinfandi market.

The general manager of the market was dismissed, along with other
local officials.

 	* Beijing tightens controls to tackle virus spike
 	* Fear of Beijing second wave after market outbreak

The Beijing government said "relevant people" from the market would
not be allowed to leave the city, regardless of which neighbourhood
they live in.

The market has tens of thousands of visitors each day.

WHAT IS THE SITUATION IN THE REST OF CHINA?

In general, China has successfully "flattened the curve" in recent
months.

After passing 80,000 confirmed cases at the start of March, it has
added only around 3,200 since then.

On Tuesday, for example, it reported just 32 locally-transmitted cases
in the whole country - 27 were in Beijing with four in neighbouring
Hebei.

 [image]
Media playback is unsupported on your device

-------------------------

DO YOU LIVE IN ONE OF THE 27 BEIJING NEIGHBOURHOODS WHERE RESTRICTIONS
ARE IN PLACE? SHARE YOUR EXPERIENCES BY EMAILING
haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk.

Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC
journalist.

FEAR OF BEIJING SECOND WAVE AFTER MARKET OUTBREAK

 
An area of the Chinese capital Beijing has been put under strict
lockdown measures after the city's first coronavirus cases in more
than 50 days.

The outbreak has been linked to the city's largest wholesale market.

A total of 45 people out of 517 tested at the Xinfadi market tested
positive for Covid-19, a district official said. None was displaying
symptoms.

Lockdowns have been imposed in 11 nearby neighbourhoods, while 10,000
market staff will be tested.

The authorities also want to test everyone who has had recent contact
with the market as well as those living in the district surrounding
it.

These are the first new confirmed cases in Beijing for more than 50
days.

WHAT DO WE KNOW ABOUT THE NEW CASES?

Xinfadi market in the city's south-western Fengtai district was shut
down in the early hours of Saturday, after two men who had recently
visited the market were reported to have Covid-19.

Tests at the market then showed 45 people had the virus.

"In accordance with the principle of putting the safety of the masses
and health first, we have adopted lockdown measures for the Xinfadi
market and surrounding neighbourhoods," Chu Junwei, a district
official, told a briefing.

The district is in a "wartime emergency mode", he added.

Hundreds of military police have entered the now locked-down facility.
Nearby transport links and schools have been closed.

 	* What did China do about early outbreak?
 	* Did China test a whole city in 10 days?

Right across Beijing sport has been cancelled and major public
facilities are pulling down the shutters again.

There will now be fears of a second wave of the virus in the capital.

 [image]
Media playback is unsupported on your device

China's coronavirus outbreak was brought under control through some of
the world's strictest lockdown measures after the disease was detected
in the city of Wuhan.

More than 4,600 people in China have lost their lives to the
coronavirus out of around 426,000 worldwide, according to the Johns
Hopkins University.

Chinese officials aren't sure how the huge Xinfandi wholesale market -
which supplies 80% of Beijing's vegetables and meat - has become the
source of a new coronavirus outbreak.

In recent months the Chinese government's strategy has been to
completely isolate any town or city where a coronavirus cluster has
emerged.

This appears to have worked but locking down all of Beijing, at time
when it seemed like the virus emergency had been brought under
control, is not something they'll want to do in a hurry.
 

SCOTS TEACHER SAYS BEIJING 'COMING BACK TO LIFE'

[image] 
From a flat in Beijing, Chloe Sandilands has watched the impact of
coronavirus in Scotland largely through the lens of social media.

"At least we have toilet paper," she laughs. "No one is bulk buying
here, I've never seen the shop shelves out of anything."

Since September, the 22-year-old has been living and teaching in the
Chinese capital - nearly 5,000 miles away from her home in Rosyth,
Fife.

She says the country's convenience culture has helped overcome social
distancing - a form of virus management.

Beijing has seen widespread closures of shops, bars and restaurants,
while other venues limit three to a table. Strict curfews at apartment
complexes are also in operation.

The arrival of the virus in the UK was enough to prompt a surge in
panic purchasing, leaving many supermarkets without basic supplies
such as hand wash.

But according to Chloe, Beijing has avoided such disruption - largely
because ordering food and groceries online is the norm.

People are able to use a single payment app - such as Alipay or WeChat
- not only to arrange deliveries, but also to order taxis and for
online banking.

The same apps also provide daily updates on coronavirus recovery
figures.

"China is so far ahead of the UK in terms of technology and
convenience," Chloe said. "You can track the country's health and see
how everyone is doing, it's reassuring.

"But it's been a couple of months now and you realise you can't be in
the house all the time - life has to go on.

"People still wear masks but I think people are getting less scared.
The subway is getting busier and you see more people out and about
which is nice.

"It feels like it's coming back to life."

Chloe moved to Beijing to teach English in the private sector in
September, four months before the coronavirus outbreak.

Like many others, she was off work during the Lunar New Year, but her
school has since remained closed - a consistent issue of concern in
Scotland.

 	* Lanarkshire school closure after infection confirmed
 	* No change to exam timetable 'at present'

Chloe's employer has instead set up an online video conferencing
system which Chloe uses to communicate with students - meaning lessons
are possible, but logistically challenging.

She explains how the system means class sizes have been cut in half
and encouraging children to focus from afar takes up a great deal of
time.

She said: "A class that would have taken me two hours with a 10-minute
break is now taking me three hours and 20 minutes.

"I've had kids just playing or hiding from the computer - one older
kid drew a stick man and stuck it in front of his computer lens.

"It's just new and can be scary for them and you have to make sure
they're comfortable. At the end of each class you tell each person to
stay safe and wash their hands - but I'm not sure how much they'll
understand.

"Their parents are over their shoulders so you end up talking to them
more."

Having detected its first case at the end of February, the UK has now
entered the second phase of virus management.

New social distancing measures have been introduced aimed at delaying
the peak of the outbreak until the summer.

In Scotland, these measures include self-isolation for people who
experience new coughs and fevers, as well as advice against large
gatherings.

Meanwhile, China has seen a total of 80,754 confirmed cases and 3,136
deaths - it also recorded its lowest number of new infections, just
19, on Tuesday.

In Beijing, temperature checks are still being carried out on citizens
at subways, apartments and restaurants. People who show signs of fever
are turned away.

However, this week President Xi Jinping visited the city of Wuhan -
the centre of the coronavirus outbreak - sending the message that the
situation is under control.

For Chloe, who has managed to avoid the virus, there certainly seems
to be light at the end of a rather long tunnel.

She said: "We're all pretty isolated but I'm allowed to leave my flat,
thankfully.

"Chinese people are very strong and kind, which is something Scottish
people share. I don't know how Scottish people would handle
restrictions on going out - but if it's a matter of public health I
think we'd power through.

"It's definitely a very scary time for everyone, it would be
irresponsible to pretend everything is ok.

"I didn't realise until recently that if you're inside all day you
start to go a bit crazy - but you try to cling to your community and
your people. You're all in the same boat so don't isolate yourself
more than necessary."


HOW CHINA IS KEEPING BUSY DURING QUARANTINE

 
With millions of people across China under lockdown, businesses across
the country are trying to come up with ways to keep their customers
occupied and connected.

In Hubei province, the epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak, at least
56 million people remain under strict instruction to remain inside
their residential communities and villages. At one point, around 500
million people were said to be affected by movement restrictions to
contain the virus.

Many people have turned to the internet as one way to cure their
boredom.

According to The Paper, searches for the word "boring" on social media
site Weibo grew by 626% on 26 January and topics such as "how to spend
time at home when bored" also started to trend on the website.

Entrepreneurs began to realise there were ways of keeping in touch
with their customers. Here are a few of the methods being used in
China right now.

WORKOUT VIDEOS AT HOME

Gyms across China have been forced to close amid fears that they could
help spread the virus. A number of gyms have started classes online so
their customers can keep fit from home.

Lauren Hogan, General Manager for F45 in Shanghai, told the BBC that
her gyms are offering workout sessions on WeChat, a popular messaging
app in China.

"Every day my trainers have created a circuit-based workout depending
on our programming. They've created a sheet of exercises and they are
recording videos, but having fun with it too."

	* Coronavirus credit crunch hits Chinese firms

Ms Hogan said there are groups in WeChat for customers where they can
write in and tell other people they have completed the day's exercise.

"We also did a plank challenge and they had to tag someone in the
group to take part," she added.

 [image]
Media playback is unsupported on your device

She said the videos have helped people talk and know that there is a
resource for them, and customers have been appreciative.

"We've had personal thank you messages and also messages in the group
chats. People are happy and grateful that we're taking the time to do
it and show that we care. When you're stuck in your house, it turns
into very long days and having someone else to talk to helps."

Other chains are following suit including Gravity Plus in Beijing.
Aside from running online classes, it has also rented out gym
equipment as an extra way of bringing in income, Reuters news agency
reports.

CLUBBING FROM YOUR LIVING ROOM

With nightclubs closed and music events cancelled for the foreseeable
future, a number of DJs and clubs in China are turning to "cloud
clubbing".

Cloud clubbing is where people can watch live DJ sets and send in
messages to give them the feeling that they're in a club. The cloud
clubbing events usually take place on apps such as Douyin, China's
TikTok.

TAXX Shanghai is one club that has taken advantage on the demand for
"cloud clubbing sessions".

Ruan Liangliang, manager of TAXX Shanghai told Sixth Tone: "Recently
many of our friends and customers have said they are bored with their
indoor lives. So we planned a live broadcast to share pleasant music
and ease their anxiety."

He told the website he was surprised at the positive feedback from
those who took part. However despite earning about $104,000 (Â£80,000)
in tips, he says it is not enough to cover the rent.

Strawberry Music Festival, an indie music festival that has been
hosted in several Chinese cities, put on its own indoor music festival
named "Hi, I am also at home".

The festival was held for five days and featured shows from many
musical acts. The shows were pre-recorded, however viewers were able
to discuss the music together in the comments section as if they were
watching a show together.

BOOKSHOP GROUPS AND BOOK LISTS

Bookshops have also had to think of new ways of reaching customers, a
double blow to an industry that is already competing against online
shops.

Chengdu Fang Suo Bookstore is located in the trendy Taikoo Li shopping
centre in the city. One bookseller who gave their name as Jin Jin told
local media that it usually brings in customers with its scenery and
displays however it has turned to Wechat to help bring in any revenue.

Shop workers made their own lists in WeChat groups including "selected
books of the year" and the "recommended reading list of Fang Suo
house". Customers could then order the books via their online store.

Elsewhere in China, 1200 Bookstore in Guangzhou, a 24-hour shop, has
been selling gift cards, tote bags and "blind gift packages" as a way
to bring in income.

In a post written on social media, the store's owner warned its
customers that it might not be long before 1200 Bookstore would have
to shut permanently. He was inundated with supportive messages from
followers.


CHINA OPEN POSTPONED OVER CORONAVIRUS

[Australian Neil Robertson won last year's China Open]
Snooker's lucrative China Open has been postponed over fears around
the coronavirus outbreak.

The ranking event in Beijing was due to take place from 30 March to 5
April, finishing 13 days before the World Championship starts at the
Crucible.

"Our priority has to be the welfare of players, staff and the many
fans who travel around China and beyond," said the World Snooker Tour
(WST).

Meanwhile, the LPGA Blue Bay golf event in China has been cancelled.

The women's competition was scheduled to begin on 5 March.

Two people from the same family have tested positive for coronavirus
in the UK, the chief medical officer for England announced on Friday.

At least 213 people in China have died from the virus, with almost
10,000 cases nationally. There have been a further 98 cases in another
18 countries.

The WST said: "Discussions with our partners in terms of staging this
event at a later date are ongoing. 

"In the meantime, our thoughts are with all of our many friends across
China and in particular those affected by the coronavirus."