HOW CHINA IS KEEPING BUSY DURING QUARANTINE

 
With millions of people across China under lockdown, businesses across
the country are trying to come up with ways to keep their customers
occupied and connected.

In Hubei province, the epicentre of the coronavirus outbreak, at least
56 million people remain under strict instruction to remain inside
their residential communities and villages. At one point, around 500
million people were said to be affected by movement restrictions to
contain the virus.

Many people have turned to the internet as one way to cure their
boredom.

According to The Paper, searches for the word "boring" on social media
site Weibo grew by 626% on 26 January and topics such as "how to spend
time at home when bored" also started to trend on the website.

Entrepreneurs began to realise there were ways of keeping in touch
with their customers. Here are a few of the methods being used in
China right now.

WORKOUT VIDEOS AT HOME

Gyms across China have been forced to close amid fears that they could
help spread the virus. A number of gyms have started classes online so
their customers can keep fit from home.

Lauren Hogan, General Manager for F45 in Shanghai, told the BBC that
her gyms are offering workout sessions on WeChat, a popular messaging
app in China.

"Every day my trainers have created a circuit-based workout depending
on our programming. They've created a sheet of exercises and they are
recording videos, but having fun with it too."

	* Coronavirus credit crunch hits Chinese firms

Ms Hogan said there are groups in WeChat for customers where they can
write in and tell other people they have completed the day's exercise.

"We also did a plank challenge and they had to tag someone in the
group to take part," she added.

 [image]
Media playback is unsupported on your device

She said the videos have helped people talk and know that there is a
resource for them, and customers have been appreciative.

"We've had personal thank you messages and also messages in the group
chats. People are happy and grateful that we're taking the time to do
it and show that we care. When you're stuck in your house, it turns
into very long days and having someone else to talk to helps."

Other chains are following suit including Gravity Plus in Beijing.
Aside from running online classes, it has also rented out gym
equipment as an extra way of bringing in income, Reuters news agency
reports.

CLUBBING FROM YOUR LIVING ROOM

With nightclubs closed and music events cancelled for the foreseeable
future, a number of DJs and clubs in China are turning to "cloud
clubbing".

Cloud clubbing is where people can watch live DJ sets and send in
messages to give them the feeling that they're in a club. The cloud
clubbing events usually take place on apps such as Douyin, China's
TikTok.

TAXX Shanghai is one club that has taken advantage on the demand for
"cloud clubbing sessions".

Ruan Liangliang, manager of TAXX Shanghai told Sixth Tone: "Recently
many of our friends and customers have said they are bored with their
indoor lives. So we planned a live broadcast to share pleasant music
and ease their anxiety."

He told the website he was surprised at the positive feedback from
those who took part. However despite earning about $104,000 (Â£80,000)
in tips, he says it is not enough to cover the rent.

Strawberry Music Festival, an indie music festival that has been
hosted in several Chinese cities, put on its own indoor music festival
named "Hi, I am also at home".

The festival was held for five days and featured shows from many
musical acts. The shows were pre-recorded, however viewers were able
to discuss the music together in the comments section as if they were
watching a show together.

BOOKSHOP GROUPS AND BOOK LISTS

Bookshops have also had to think of new ways of reaching customers, a
double blow to an industry that is already competing against online
shops.

Chengdu Fang Suo Bookstore is located in the trendy Taikoo Li shopping
centre in the city. One bookseller who gave their name as Jin Jin told
local media that it usually brings in customers with its scenery and
displays however it has turned to Wechat to help bring in any revenue.

Shop workers made their own lists in WeChat groups including "selected
books of the year" and the "recommended reading list of Fang Suo
house". Customers could then order the books via their online store.

Elsewhere in China, 1200 Bookstore in Guangzhou, a 24-hour shop, has
been selling gift cards, tote bags and "blind gift packages" as a way
to bring in income.

In a post written on social media, the store's owner warned its
customers that it might not be long before 1200 Bookstore would have
to shut permanently. He was inundated with supportive messages from
followers.